Add Easy Install Docs based on Ubuntu and Docker Compose (#837)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/pages/depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/ubuntu-compose-eval.adoc

You are interested in using it, possibly for the first time.

=== Software Stack

For the OS, *Ubuntu LTS 24.04* has been selected, but it will also work with Ubuntu LTS 22.04. On purpose, we reference to https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop[Ubuntu Desktop] as that has a GUI including a browser preinstalled. The office suite that is offered to be installed with Ubuntu Desktop is not a prerequisite and can be omitted during the OS installation process if a fresh setup is planned.

If you already have a computer running Ubuntu Desktop LTS 24.04, you can use that one as long it meets the requirements listed below. 

Note that this guide expects:

* The prerequisite of a computer with the installed OS is met and any required software other than Infinite Scale is installed and preconfigured and all the software is updated to the latest version.

* You have at minimum shell access from within the GUI and you can reach your host via ssh from another computer in your network. `sudo` permissions are required in some steps later in the setup.

== Limitations

These are limitations that are defined by the setup chosen.

[#accessing-ocis]
Accessing Infinite Scale::
--

> . The setup requires in the first step a system that has a GUI. Though you can expand the setup as described in xref:access-from-the-local-network[Access From the Local Network], a headless system (no GUI) like it is used in an production environment is covered in a follow up documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The setup requires in the first step a system that has a GUI. Though you can expand the setup as described in xref:access-from-the-local-network[Access From the Local Network], a headless system (no GUI) like what would be used in a production environment is covered in later documentation.
```

. Based on the goal of setting up an Infinite Scale instance as fast as possible, any access to the instance is in the first step *only* possible from the computer Infinite Scale is installed on and in the second step from the internal network ([.lime]#green#) the server is connected to.
+

> Setting up access from the outside aka internet to the server using an external resolvable domain like `ocis.mydomain.com` and routing networks ([.red]#red#) is *not* part of this documentation but can be configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up access from the outside, aka internet, to the server using an external resolvable domain like `ocis.mydomain.com` and routing networks ([.red]#red#) is *not* part of this documentation but can be configured.
```

+
image::depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/ubuntu-test-install.drawio.svg[Network Overview, width=400]

. To access Infinite Scale from your computer or from your local network, the domain name `ocis.owncloud.test` and other required subdomains are used which are not resolvable from external networks.

> . Because no validated certificates are used for this environment, any browser accessing Infinite Scale will get invalid certificate warnings that must be accepted upfront, which is safe to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Because no validated certificates are used for this environment, any browser accessing Infinite Scale will get invalid certificate warnings that must be accepted upfront, which is safe to do.
```

+

> NOTE: The self signed certificates used are automatically provided by https://traefik.io[traefik] which is part of the deployment. These certificates are re-issued on EVERY start of the compose environment. You therfore must (re)accept them when you start or re-start this deployment, see xref:prepare-your-browser[Prepare Your Browser] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The self signed certificates used are automatically provided by https://traefik.io[traefik] which is part of the deployment. These certificates are re-issued on EVERY start of the compose environment. You therefore must (re)accept them when you start or re-start this deployment, see xref:prepare-your-browser[Prepare Your Browser] for more details.
```

--

User and User Access Management::
The following embedded services are well suited for this kind of installation and smaller businesses though Infinite Scale can be configured to use external products which is relevant for bigger installations and not covered here.
* Infinite Scale has an embedded identity management (IDM footnote:[See the xref:{s-path}/idm.adoc[IDM, window=_blank] service for more details]) which takes care of creating, storing, and managing user identity information.
* In addition, it also has an embedded identity provider (IDP footnote:[See the xref:{s-path}/idp.adoc[IDP, window=_blank] service for more details]) to track and manage user identities, as well as the permissions and access levels associated with those identities.

== Install the Docker Engine

To check if docker is installed, open a shell and type the following command:

[source,bash]
----
docker --version
----

> * If you get an output like the following: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you get output like the following: +
```

When you have finished the configuration, you can start the compose setup by issuing the following command:

[source,bash]
----
sudo docker compose up
----

This command will download all necessary containers and starts up the instance according your settings. All outputs and logging is also printed to the shell. For later startups, you can add the `-d` flag which starts the container in the background and no logging is printed to the shell.

=== Prepare Your Browser

* The following step is necessary because no valid browser certificates like ones from Letsencrypt are used.
* When using trusted certificates which require a domain resolvable from the internet, this step is not necessary. Setting up trusted certificates is not covered here.

After you have started up Infinite Scale, you must accept per browser invalid certificates provided by the docker compose setup *before* you can access Infinite Scale and web office applications.

[NOTE]
====
This procedure is necessary:

* For any clients and browsers that will access this Infinite Scale instance from the same network before Infinite Scale is used.
* Every time the compose environment is started like with `docker compose up`.

> To accept invalid certificates, which is in this case safe to do so, open a browser, access *any* domain added via xref:update-the-hosts-file[Update the hosts File] and accept that you are fine using that invalid certificate. There is no furter action necessary than accepting the certificate. See an example screenshot based on the Firefox browser for guidance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accept invalid certificates, which is in this case safe to do, open a browser, access *any* domain added via xref:update-the-hosts-file[Update the hosts File] and accept that you are fine using that invalid certificate. There is no further action necessary than accepting the certificate. See an example screenshot based on the Firefox browser for guidance:
```

[source,URL]
----
ocis.owncloud.test
----

Which will show the following screen:

image::depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/infinite-scale-login.png[Infinite Scale Login, width=300]

For the credentials, use:

* `admin` as user and 
* `admin` for the password, +
or the one you have defined manually during setup.

NOTE: If you forgot the manually defined password set during initial setup, you need to follow one of the procedures described in the xref:admin-password[Admin Password] section.

If you have logged in successfully, you should see the following screen:

image::depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/ocis-logged-in.png[Infinite Scale Logged In, width=300]

Congratulations, you have successfully setup Infinite Scale based on the deployment example.

TIP: Checkout the https://doc.owncloud.com/desktop[Desktop App] for enhanced usage.

[NOTE]
====
The Infinite Scale deployment will reboot automatically on a server reboot if the compose environment is not shut down manually by the following command.

[source,bash]
----
sudo docker compose down
----
====

> With further steps described below, the configuration can be enhanced to make Infinite Scale not only accessible from your computer but also for other clients within your network. Some basic monitoring commands are also described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With further steps described below, the configuration can be enhanced to make Infinite Scale not only accessible from your computer but also for other clients within your network. Some basic monitoring commands are also described.
```
